Spiced carrot & lentil soup

A delicious, spicy blend packed full of iron and low in fat to boot. It's ready in under half an hour, or can be made in a slow cooker

Prep:  10 mins
Cook: 15 mins
Serves: 4

Ingredients:

2 tsp cumin seeds
pinch chilli flakes
2 tbsp olive oil
600g carrots, washed and coarsely grated (no need to peel)
140g split red lentils
1l hot vegetable stock (from a cube is fine)
125ml milk
plain yogurt and naan bread, to serve


Method
STEP 1
Heat a large saucepan and dry-fry 2 tsp cumin seeds and a pinch of chilli flakes for 1 min, or until they start to jump around the pan and release their aromas.

STEP 2
Scoop out about half with a spoon and set aside. Add 2 tbsp olive oil, 600g coarsely grated carrots, 140g split red lentils, 1l hot vegetable stock and 125ml milk to the pan and bring to the boil.

STEP 3
Simmer for 15 mins until the lentils have swollen and softened.

STEP 4
Whizz the soup with a stick blender or in a food processor until smooth (or leave it chunky if you prefer).

STEP 5
Season to taste and finish with a dollop of plain yogurt and a sprinkling of the reserved toasted spices. Serve with warmed naan breads.


Mushroom soup

Make the most of mushrooms with this comforting mushroom soup recipe made with cream, onions and garlic. Serve for lunch or as a starter with crusty bread

Prep:  10 mins
Cook: 25 mins
Serves: 4

Ingredients

90g butter
2 medium onions, roughly chopped
1 garlic clove, crushed
500g mushrooms, finely chopped (chestnut or button mushrooms work well)
2 tbsp plain flour
1l hot chicken stock
1 bay leaf
4 tbsp single cream
small handful flat-leaf parsley, roughly chopped, to serve (optional)

Method
STEP 1
Heat the butter in a large saucepan and cook the onions and garlic until soft but not browned, about 8-10 mins.

STEP 2
Add the mushrooms and cook over a high heat for another 3 mins until softened. Sprinkle over the flour and stir to combine. Pour in the chicken stock, bring the mixture to the boil, then add the bay leaf and simmer for another 10 mins.

STEP 3
Remove and discard the bay leaf, then remove the mushroom mixture from the heat and blitz using a hand blender until smooth. Gently reheat the soup and stir through the cream (or, you could freeze the soup at this stage – simply stir through the cream when heating). Scatter over the parsley, if you like, and serve.

Butternut squash soup

Come in from the cold to a comforting bowl of autumnal squash soup. Adding a hint of chilli gives it a warming kick whilst crème fraîche makes it creamier

Prep:  15 mins
Cook: 50 mins
Serves: 4

Ingredients

1 butternut squash, about 1kg, peeled and deseeded
2 tbsp olive oil
1 tbsp butter
2 onions, diced
1 garlic clove, thinly sliced
2 mild red chillies, deseeded and finely chopped
850ml hot vegetable stock
4 tbsp crème fraîche, plus more to serve

